Create template-tags.md (#66493)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/ai-agents/embedded/widget/template-tags.md

---
products: embedded
---

# Template Tags

## Overview

> Template tags are a powerful tool through which you can configure available source and connection templates for use in a specific workspace. They are strings you can include in the template itself that serve as filters via the widget token. By including `selected_source_template_tags` and `selected_connection_template_tags` you define the source and connection templates available in the corresponding workspace's widget. Examples of workflows available via template tags are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Template tags are a powerful tool through which you can configure available source and connection templates for use in a specific workspace. They are labels you can associate to the template that serve as filters via the widget token. By including `selected_source_template_tags` and `selected_connection_template_tags` you define the source and connection templates available in the corresponding workspace's widget. Examples of workflows available via template tags are:
```

- Assigning unique and separate destinations by customer's workspace.
- Offering a specific source packages to different customer segments.
- Organizing available source templates by data type (e.g. "Analytics", "CRM", "Cloud Storage")

## Creating Tags

> You can create a tag on your source or connection templates either programmatically or via [our newly released UI](https://app.airbyte.ai).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a tag for your source or connection templates either programmatically or via [our newly released UI](https://app.airbyte.ai).
```

<img width="936" height="261" alt="Screenshot 2025-09-17 at 9 44 28 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aebc08af-e922-4cf8-b35f-b5880d57a1f3" />

To programmatically create a tag for a connection template, you'll need to make the following request.

``` bash
curl -X POST "https://api.airbyte.ai/api/v1/integrations/templates/connections/{id}/tag" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>" \
  -H "X-Organization-Id: <ORGANIZATION_ID>" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"tag": "your-tag-name"}'
```

To programmatically create a tag for a source template, you'll need to make the following request.

```bash
curl -X POST "https://api.airbyte.ai/api/v1/integrations/templates/sources/{id}/tag" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>" \
  -H "X-Organization-Id: <ORGANIZATION_ID>" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"tag": "your-tag-name"}'
```

## Filtering and Removing Tags

When you embed the Airbyte widget in your front-end, you generate a widget token. This token is passed to the widget and controls which source and connection templates are available, based on the tag specifications.

> The widget token is created with parameters like ‎`selected_source_template_tags` and ‎`selected_connection_template_tags_mode`, which define what the end user can see and select in your web application.

Reviewer: shouldn't there be an example of how to create a token with specific tags?
